- [Instructor] Let us now take a look at how are we going
to use scriptlet and expression element on a JSP.
If you remember our search use case,
this was the search results page
which was trying to display all the products
in a static fashion.
Every division element represented on product
and we had the SRC attribute and the name attribute
of the image as placeholders which we were trying
to replace with the data in the servlet code.
So, basically, we were trying to deal
very hard with this HTML file.
What we are going to do now
is we will transform this HTML into a JSP
and make sure that the product data that you want
to display on the page gets generated dynamically
through the scriptlet and expression elements.
So, let's get started on it.
The first thing that we have to do is
we have to convert this HTML file into a JSP.
It's going to be as simple as renaming it
and changing this extension to .jsp.
Right.
Now, there's another thing that we need to do.
Let's go to the SearchServlet.
If you remember, on lines number 34 and 35,
those are the places where we were trying
to read their HTML, replace placeholders,
and write again the entire string back to the client.
So, we are no longer going to do that.
I'm going to command out this code.
Instead, we are going to do a couple of things.
The first one is the products that you obtained
from the DAO layer on line number 31,
we're going to take the entire products object
and store it in the request scope as an attribute.
We've already known in one of our previous videos
as to how can you store information
in the form of attributes in request code.
So, we now want to do the demo here.
So, on line number 36, I'm just going to grab
that request object
and invoke that API of setAttribute.
Now, this is going to demand information
in the form of a key in value
so, I'm going to give a key.
Names, of course, your choice
and the value will be this entire real list object
that I want so that it's available
to me on my JSP.
Once I do this, the next thing that I have to do
is forward the control to the searchResults.JSP.
Now, you see how things are changing.
The last time we did the search use case demo
we had to read that file and all of that.
Now, it becomes so simple with a JSP.
Now, you just need to take the request control
to the JSP page and then, we go ahead
and start coding on JSP.
So, let's do that.
Let's grab the request object.
Let's get the requestDispatcher API.
Let's feed the path of searchResults.JSP
and let's quickly invoke the forward API,
pass on the request and the response objects
and we are done.
So, now, from the SearchServlet,
we are going to go to the searchResults.JSP
where we are going to fetch this products data
and generate that product data dynamically on the page.
Now, please note, since you've started making JSP pages
you could put all the JSP pages in a JSP folder
instead of an HTML folder.
However, it really doesn't matter.
You can still stick to the same HTML folder.
So now, let's go to searchResults.JSP
and, if you see, on line number 51
I've already put a command.
This is the place that we are going
to start off with writing the scriptlet and expression code.
What we need to do is we need
to first get that product's data.
Okay, so on line number 52, I'm going
to open a scriptlet element
which is going to look like this.
Right.
And, of course, this will indicate
that you're closing the script reader image.
So now, inside this element, we are going
to write those Java statements.
On line number 53, the first thing
that I'm going to do is get that product's
a real list object from the request scope.
So, let's do that.
Let's say List,
and I'm also going to use the generex feature of Java,
List of products.
So, let's take a reference for that.
And, you're going to get it through the request objects.
I'm going to say request.getAttribute
and I'm going to feed the key of the attribute,
the key was products.
Now, there are a couple of things to note here.
The first thing is we accessed this request object.
Now, where did this come from?
Request is an implicit object on JSP.
When I say implicit, it means it is going
to be available by default on every JSP page.
You don't need to create it.
It's already created and available to you.
And, this request object is the same one
that the SearchServlet passed to us in the forward call.
So, basically, getting this request object
and now further trying to fetch data
out of it and manipulate it.
So, let's go back there.
The other thing to note is
whatever is returned out of the
request.getAttribute API call is always something
of the object type.
Object is the top paid in class in Java.
So, we need to cast this to the proper type
and I'm going to do that right here.
Right.
Once this is done, let's now start an iterator
for this products.
So, what we are going to do is
we are going to iterate this list,
we are going to fetch every element of this list,
and then, generate this entire form
and division element for each product.
So, let's do that.
I'm going to go and say iterator.
And, we use the generex syntax again
so iterator for products is equal
to products and call the iterator API on it.
Then, let's start a while loop.
And, let's say while iterator.hasNext.
You're going to take each element of that product
into a product reference.
And, that's going to be available
through the iterator.next call.
Now, understand this.
On line number 60, we have already taken the product object
from that list.
Now, for each of these products,
we need to generate this entire element.
So, what we are going to do is
we're going to take this and copy it from line number 61.
But, please understand, this is HTML code
and we cannot write it inside the scriptlet element
which essentially means that I will have
to close the scriptlet right at this point,
then again write this HTML code,
and then close this while loop in another scriptlet element.
So, let's do that.
I'm going to close the scriptlet right here
and instead on line number 71.
Let's take that and close it here.
Once we do that, what we are essentially doing is
for every iteration of this while loop
I'm going to generate this form element.
Let me also close the form element here.
Right.
And now, once we do this only then can we end this loop.
But, ending this loop is a Java curly brace
which, of course, is a Java code,
which means we now need to introduce
another scriptlet element on line number 69.
So, let's do that.
That's right.
This is what we have to do.
Now, this entire code is, of course,
going to sit inside the product container division element.
So, I'm going to take lines number 55 to 72,
cut them, and just quickly paste them
on line number 62 onwards.
And, now that we have generated the entire form element
for every product, we don't any longer need
these static elements at all.
We need to get rid of them.
This is the division container
and we have iterated the products.
Every product is now going to have
an individual form element
and for every product, this form is going to get generated.
So now, let's also get rid of these placeholders.
Instead of these placeholders,
now we are going to use the expression element
to access the product image and the product name.
So, I'm going to use the expression element
so let's see how.
You are going to begin the expression element like that
and expression of course has an equal to sign.
And, if you want to close it,
it will be in the reverse order.
Right.
And, what are we going to feed in this?
We want the image.
That can obtained through this product reference.
So, I'm going to say product.getProduct image path.
That's right.
As for the name, it's going to be get product name,
so let's also do that change via an expression element.
So, I'm going to quickly say product.getProductName.
Right.
We also had one more placeholder on line number 52
which was signifying the items in cart.
But, for the search use case,
the items is always going to be zero.
So, right now, let's keep it at zero in a hard coded manner.
We'll change this later.
So, now let's deploy this application and check our changes.
I'm going to say run as, run on server
and I'm going to click on the search hyperlink,
search for a product,
and click on the search button.
There you go.
So now, all these items have definitely been retrieved,
but they are all dynamically generated items
and that's only possible because you have
that scripted and expression element with you.
So, that's how you can use scripted and expression
to generate dynamic content for your webpages.